welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
Tune In And subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing Business Leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning their story how
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you Skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
Sam's business growth show I'm delighted
to be joined by Justin Michael today
Justin's an expert on all things B2B
sales automation he'll move you from
Henry Ford to Tony Stark to Unleash Your
Inner Jarvis Iron Man suit of sales Tech
Stacks he's advised well over 100
companies from his company Justin
Michael's Consulting Justin a very warm
welcome sir how are you doing yeah it's
great to see you we both wore red I love
your chair it looks like you're about to
uh hit warp drive over there it's pretty
cool
interesting absolutely sit in an
armchair like an armchair philosopher so
I always stress with my students that
this is about your success not me
telling you how awesome I am right it's
about uh constant Improvement and
getting our emails responded to Landing
meetings and starting to make some cold
calls actually set you know so I'm all
about my customer which is the people
that practice My Method I almost do feel
like Cobra Kai like I'm running a dojo
it's money I have a patreon I have 200
people in there pay monthly to access me
I'm doing it essay based now so you can
pay 10 bucks a month or you write me an
email compelling enough to let let me in
there so I'll let you in there for free
because I just don't want it to be no
skin in the game I want people who are
like really ready to shred on this stuff
you know that's a cool idea man I didn't
realize you were doing that and it's
interesting you mentioned Cobra car as
well I'm just working my way through
season two and I've been binging it
right over the weekend but yeah we're
not talking cry we're talking business
growth we're talking sales we want to
give the audience today some actionable
tips on all things crafting sales emails
so you don't even have to be in sales to
to be able to craft these kind of emails
you could run your own business and you
could run all aspects of the business
you could be the marketing team you
could be the sales team you could be the
full business growth team Under One Roof
um but what I want to talk to you about
Justin specifically is looking at all
aspects of the sales process whether
it's cold email whether it's emails to
set meetings follow up with your
proposals or um if someone's gone hey
well we want to get them back on track
and so I'd love to really pick your
brains and learn perhaps we could start
from the top
um in terms of how to craft perfect cold
emails yeah so what I'm going to share
with you is a contrarian View
and it's uh I don't want to steal the
Thunder of another podcast I'm going on
but this is definitely uh Divergent from
the rest of the industry what I
discovered over the past five years 10
years is that
um the vast majority of email crafting
is templates and all the templates are
long so first you sell you just you take
an Elon Musk approach to email
and the first thing you see is wow all
the template systems you can buy for
email in the world are long
and then you look at all the human
communication systems Tick Tock snap
Facebook Messenger WhatsApp text
messages Instagram
if you look at the last hundred
Communications you had with any loved
one you've never written a paragraph
ever
and so first you go wait we're shooting
out all these long templates that make
marketing happy journalist happy authors
happy
but it's not how human beings
communicate that's odd so that's the
first thing I changed so all my systems
look like an atomized Twitter feed none
of my stuff is three paragraphs
for the brain to process a three
paragraph email takes 13 seconds a three
sentence email takes under three seconds
um you get 18 words from the preview
text on an iPhone or Android to the
first line that's usually wasted with a
long title and hope you're doing well a
pleasantry which from birth we're taught
to be pleasant another flaw now these
are just tactical but it goes even
crazier the human brain in the mind
neurologically the Mind cannot process
text it takes us a long time to go
through grades K through 12 or the form
schools in England or wherever you are
in the world even when you get fuzzy at
night you're tired and you're reading a
book you start to get fuzzy because
words are symbols they're images and
what are we doing when we're reading in
the neocortex is we're processing
symbols into imagery that's why there's
connotation and implication so my
biggest breakthrough first is that cold
email is about visuals so I use Venn
diagrams and I use explainer GIFs and I
bump pictures at people
okay so you have first of all the
shortest systems ever created marketing
director will allow you pay painfully
short we'll go Shakespeare for the
English crowd Breville is the soul of
wit or we can go da Vinci Simplicity is
the ultimate sophistication but my
systems are insane people pay me
sometimes a hundred dollars per word you
pay me two thousand dollars for a
sequence and they're like I'm paying you
this much money and you can only give me
seven or Fifty words I'm like yeah I'm
gonna help you change we're not going to
do the novelist emails none of that sets
the big novel emails and systems you get
once a while Prospect this is the most
amazing email that's not my goal I want
to set meetings
so that is the biggest thing about
emails also we have these sequencers we
have automation that's possible here's
the problem we all want to be nice with
it oh let's do a day one and day three
and day five and day seven well then
you're marketing you're not can spam
compliant you're not gdpr compliant
you're suddenly in my email box and
you're hiding out it's not what I do I
hit you up on the first day thread bump
second day bump third day wait 48 hours
I have the most assertive sequences ever
written in the history of the world what
does it do it forces a polite person to
remove you refer you lots of referrals
routing
so I build geometric sequences and then
I have a science to my emails that is
dual fold one is one piece of it is
called heuristics which is a term taken
from computer coding which means a
framework or overlay
because the other thing about a template
email is there's no such thing as a
template sentences are heuristics which
means that if you say you know it looks
like a crocodile fell on you that's a
humor statement if you say we help Acme
Corp Drive a 33 efficiency that is value
for similar client heuristic and so my
templates are puzzle pieces of
Frameworks of what does the text mean
not just the picture it's going to
connote right and then I'll pop a Venn
diagram in that Venn diagram will be
sixty thousand words of heavy lifts
right a phone conversation is worth 241
emails but one picture of then is going
to get you to hundreds of emails and you
only need five to twelve touches so I
sent a Venn diagram five years ago to
the chief digital officer of McDonald's
and I set the meeting within five
minutes not a lie I sent a Venn diagram
the VP of Mobile Home Depot a picture
out of a Gmail to the VP of Home Depot
he called my phone he said Pitch me
that's when I knew I basically jumped
for Joy I was like Doc Brown and back to
the future I hit my head on my toilet
and inventing the flux capacitor I
realized that email is not about text
and I had it this ven system so I built
it in the Justin Michael method and I
have a similarly weird thing I do for
cold calls if you want to hear about it
but we can stick to email because I mean
I think I think email is what we want to
stick to for now that's interesting
picking apart what you've just said
there that's a heck of a lot to take in
but very interesting nonetheless Justin
um and some of it even well above my
head so to to get to the point keeping
emails short like you say a lot of us
we're probably sick and tired of hearing
those emails that say hey hope you're
well hope you're doing well in these
tough times all that BS that like you
say just take up real estate especially
if you're opening the email on your
phone and you've only got those few
characters to actually break through and
make someone even open your email let
alone read it or even respond to it
um so for anyone that's perhaps brand
new or hasn't done that many sales
emails or cold outreaches maybe they've
put together a list of their ideal
prospects and they're thinking I want to
craft some code emails I need to set
some meetings pretty sharpish I'm scared
of the telephone so I want to use the
email to to try and break through are
there any kind of real simple tips that
we can just say look follow this method
and you will get a few meetings booked
at least this week yep so I met a single
mom in Toronto
and uh I gave her a seven minute PDF my
PDF which I call the cheat codes she
copy and pasted my email and on the
first send she got a meeting
another guy comes in he's the top rep
ever at Glassdoor he takes my little PDF
takes a picture of it sends it okay in
in the first week on the first email he
gets a meeting with two Fortune 100
companies pipeline value two million
dollars I can't make this up I'm a lucky
man my stuff works for now
um if I'm going to give you a tip so
first of all just contact me I'll give
you this thing for free it's a free
guide I've distributed over Reddit I got
gilded on Reddit I put the whole
technique on Reddit R sales or salesborg
my my tribe is called salesborg like a
salesperson and a cyborg it was
originally a vendor Avengers but I
didn't want to go Tony Stark and have
you know the mouse have Disney on my
case so it's called sales boards but
find it on Reddit or just hit me Justin
Michael on LinkedIn I'll give the thing
to you for free it's a PDF and uh here's
how the emails look you've got a one to
three word subject line tried Sutherland
like growth I'll give you one growth who
doesn't want to grow use a subject line
growth the first sentence just you know
just you know to say like hey Sally you
know we're driving this outcome make
money save money reduce risk for
similar companies or famous companies
you know have time for a college or
something it's very simple these are
tight little templates but they're so
short that they work so they leverage
things like you know social proof the
concepts from Robert cialdini there's
different uh heuristics that you're
using
um there's just basic Frameworks right
if you have caught wind that one of
their competitors has used your system
in the past that's a good thing to
mention
um the personalization I use is
different it will it will the other
systems where there's personalization
mine has no personalization
I was watching this SDR do cold emails
they say are you available Tuesday I
look at all these emails you say are you
available Thursday there's nothing in
the email you want because it's a
pattern interrupt
and why is this the case right Jeremy
Donovan Donovan looked at six million
emails and found that 20 was a level of
personalization Aaron Ross about 20 then
we get a little creepy
um but here's why this works is because
business people who actually have P LS a
profit and loss statement and money to
buy from you they have problems in covet
19. they're not sitting around wanting
to talk to you about sports your rugby
league football right I'm trying to make
this UK because they need it they're
sitting there right now with a problem
they need to find a way to grow to
expand to hire to reduce risk and
personalization and relevance right it's
about something that is personal to
their pain and their challenge it is not
something like hey we both love Spain
you know it's it's like
they have seven slots Mike Bosworth
figured this out so if the email points
to something that's a really big pain
for them
it'll get responded to if someone
interrupt me right now and could help me
get a you know a million views on
LinkedIn
and my phone rang and they told me that
I'd drop everything and listen to them
because it's something I'm trying to do
yeah it's been killed so Josh Brown
calls this jobs to be done and he's
right really big fan of the Beck Holland
method the Josh Braun method um Scott
Britton method the crewsburger method
I've read all the methods and they all
work and they're all good in different
ways my stuff is just in some ways a
pattern interrupt and when my stuff is
taken over the world next two to five
years I have a book coming out called
Tech powered sales which in many ways is
a sequel to predictable Revenue it's all
about the tech Stacks
um predictable Revenue was all about
getting the openers and closers now we
have thousands of tech stacks uh my
stuff's going to be less potent because
people are going to take it wrote and
they're just going to copy and paste my
templates
but I guarantee you if you can catch one
thought in your marketing email that's
powerful here's the other thing so you
start to send these things that I call
Spears these super short emails
your open rates go up to 80 it's like
whoa everybody's opening the thing
because you have a one word or two word
sub decline you have this tiny short
email
the thing the email will not convert
unless there's enough pain and fear this
is something that Tony Robbins talks
about the vast majority of marketing
emails are novellesque they're long
novelist is not a word but it's my
satire until we're going to write the
Great American novel I mean you see some
of these cool emails I mean they're like
three paragraphs they got we're doing
all this in the first and then the
second no one has time in fact it
actually triggers the brain of the
prospect fight or flight they see an
alien object of this giant essay and
they're like whoa this person is really
going to try to sell me there must be a
catch they actually feel fear
subconsciously when you put that much
text in there
um
where was I going to go with this I uh
yeah they're keeping keeping short and
sweet basically you're comparing the
fact that long emails scare people short
and sweet we're talking about different
methods we're talking about practical
ways to do it yourself I mean what might
be useful for audience as well Justin is
on that note so you saying keep it super
short and sweet I give the ask at the
end
um talk about a potential pain that they
might have I mean if we're doing this
kind of research on people if you've got
any quick ways that you would conduct
This research yeah so all the time
companies come to me and they're like
they send me their cold emails and we
take it on zeros so they got a Goji
sequence they're running something
um and it's on zeros and they pay me a
ridiculous amount of money just to send
them a fix and I send them back an email
and boom it sets meetings right it's
it's it's miraculous but it's because
there's very deep Neuroscience
principles persuasion science GLD
principles I've studied you know Goldman
neuro-linguistic programming I mean
there's 20 years of work that goes into
the sentence the thing is when you're
sending the emails short you get the
opens but then it's not setting it's
because everybody's email is like
generate 80 more money
be 50 more Fitness all like a logical
thing that you measure well that's a
very small portion of the human
population most humanity is run by fear
and pain there's nobody sitting out
there even the most technical engineer
who this is a subconscious thing it's
like innuendo they figure this out with
advertising how to get everybody to want
to buy a Snickers bar
um it's just bombarding with ads you
have to do the P90X you have to show
them over like you know out of shape and
then the P90X and they're Paul Ryan
right they're all ripped in running
America you know so the problem is they
only these emails only show a logical
result people buy an emotion and they
justify with the logic so all you have
to do and Mike Weinberg was great with
this you know you know Acme was
frustrated by was ripping their hair out
was stressed and then they put in the
widget and now we have the logical
beautiful dream outcome it's just most
of the marketing it was like 232
wouldn't you want your Roi to be 3x you
want a 5x your pipeline it's like nobody
cares until you tap him emotionally on a
subconscious basis using the right
feeling words so my science is called
heuristics and emotional resonance
the shortness of it painfully short
marketing won't allow you to send it the
funny thing is once you start crushing
all the meetings in the Fortune 100 the
first people that get excited are
marketing I built the Venn diagram in a
couple companies one of the companies
actually I found it in a chief Revenue
officer's briefing it was a 350 page
briefing I saw it like the flux
capacitor I started sending it another
company embraced it and put it in their
go to market strategy it's all over
their Dax and their website and it was
super cool so once you start getting
your open rates out the conversion rate
is based on is the emotional resonance
the storytelling pain fear triggering
the right side of the brain and at
LinkedIn I did receive some great
training that I agree with
for any email to be complete you must
trigger the left and right sides of the
brain and that's very easy one is an
artistic storytelling place all the way
back to the cave paintings right and the
other one is logical business terms like
concretely how will it help me and if
you put both of those components in an
email or an email even if you mess up
the syntax or it's too long you have a
much higher shot of converting
got it and to end these emails Justin
where we actually go for the ask when we
want to set the meeting book the demo
whatever our end result is our call to
action are we what technique are you
recommending are you putting time
suggested in there for suggested dates
or using the other method where open to
learning more which is a lesser of an
ask or are you mixing and doing both try
this try no ctas
so the thing is you want to make pattern
interrupts uh there's this guy he's part
of my Mastermind uh Christopher rokus
he's uh in packaging he's world famous
now because he did the FaceTime drop he
actually call Cost people on their
FaceTime which is like a wing suited
Bass Jump he calls VPS and presidents on
their FaceTime he jumps into their
personal communication is wild so he got
a hold of my science of stuff and he
starts going
you know he sends an email with no hide
no name no pleasantry at all he just
goes right in the email or he just sends
an email there's no call to action
I do this a lot on LinkedIn actually
it's phenomenal you connect with someone
and instead of hope you're doing well
we're both in a marketing blah we'll let
you just go right in you're like a
similar company got this result
boom nothing no call to action
because no one else will do it and
marketing won't let you but if you're at
a startup and you like getting meetings
they'll let you after so ask for
forgiveness not permission
um I have people in the biggest
companies in the world Salesforce you
know their management is just like hey
as long as it's on brand it's not
disrespectful go funky try it try
something different right when you mess
up their grammar you convert higher when
you spell it wrong you convert higher
when you say hey versus high you convert
higher it's proven and Jeremy Donovan's
work when you Express gratitude you
convert higher using things or best now
gong released all the CTA research that
you want to have an interest-based CTA
right now and that's true versus like is
going to be Tuesday or Thursday which
are classic tie downs you know you grip
you know you shake hands you time down
that's bad but um what they neglected to
test is no CTA at all I'm the first
person in the history of the world said
write an email no CTA right so I'm just
really uh iconoclastic and trying stuff
because
people really if you nail this they only
look at the first 18 words they only
look at the subject line and if you if
you can really grasp the the nucleus of
that that tiny piece of real estate they
don't have to get into your email when
I'm getting when vendors are hitting me
and I'm scrolling on my mobile phone and
I get something cool actually this um
this lady sent me something the other
day that said 7 12 30 as the subject
line and I just clicked it I was like
whoa that's bizarre it really looked
like she wrote it to me and had a string
of numbers I was just like this is
brilliant so what you're actually trying
to do the best way to adapt an email
style is first look at the way you talk
to your friends and family and then turn
your emails into things that don't look
like a template they have to look human
and use sequencers to send stuff that
doesn't look like it's sent from a
sequencer then look at the last 200
emails or 50 emails you got from
marketers the huge template ones with
HBO's and pictures and all this stuff
look at the ones that you know if we go
any like there's a rash a scourge of
LinkedIn automation right now
and um here's the thing LinkedIn is an
email system and it's alerts based so
why does everyone on LinkedIn do a
custom connect and then a pitch
the way I do LinkedIn is just like email
we connect and then I send you email one
and then I send you email too
LinkedIn is email email LinkedIn are
identical make your best emails your
best LinkedIn pitches and you got to
think about this stuff so the answer is
um study the last 50 emails you got you
didn't answer them you didn't hit the
calendar link don't put a calendar Link
in your email if you're going to do a
CTA do an interest-based CTA and walk
people up a lot of Engagement so if
you're if you're doing sequencing if you
ask for a meeting in your first email
huge mistake so at least say is this
interesting to converse about or route
and say oh you know who are you the
right person to talk about like the
first call to action is like is this
relevant to you
that's a pattern interrupt because the
other 900 sales people just assume that
because you're the VP of marketing and I
sell marketing analytics that you're
going to need it so the first email is
going to say do you want to meet
right people compare this to dating
because it's fun right just walk up to
someone in a you know a nightclub and
just say hey you want to have kids right
it's never going to work it's the same
problem this stuff's way too assumptive
we're in a world now where people recoil
when it's too personal too overt the
trusted advisor is a huge part of my
methodology there's actually a lot of
finesse so you're hyper short but you're
always just like you're using all these
weasel words with some
um who talks about it art uh subject
okay cool we had him on the show a
couple weeks ago great guy yeah so
there's all these words you can use that
make you credible when you when you care
about someone like a friend or a loved
one you don't say hey you should invest
in the stock because you're going to get
30 for sure you're like you're the risks
it could be cool I think the Stock's
pretty good you got to look at you gotta
look it over think about it for yourself
talk there's actually a lot of
uncertainty it's kind of like the
transparency sale Todd Capone who
trained me at Salesforce
um when you act like a person in their
actual life that's advising them and you
talk like that people trust you hey
we're doing this thing for Pepsi and
you're a Coke but I know things are
probably very different at Coke even
though it would seem to be a fit it
potentially could do something that
we're doing for Pepsi okay the other 999
sellers when they write that email go
because we work for Pepsi it's gonna
Crush for Coke and they just assume and
they just it's not consultative at the
very high levels you're not sure
one you're not desperate and two you're
not sure
and so that waffling and weaseling and
tapping out which I call it the guy that
mastered tapouts he doesn't even know
it's called a guy named Cruise Burger he
wrote a system called breakthrough email
in 2012 13 14 15 the email went
everywhere like a PBS Chain Letter like
State PBS that was never actually real
PBS was never going out of business but
the email still forwards to this day to
millions of people all concerned that
they're going to shut down the public
broadcasting system so cruzberger
released the appropriate person template
and I used to sit my CEO's inbox and see
appropriate person appropriate person
and I still see it to this day piano
heuristic right it's a routing heuristic
what is appropriate person you're trying
to Route who in the company handles the
challenge who's the CEO of the problem
there's no templates that templates
don't exist okay words represent
heuristics a layer up a framework and
Frameworks represent a concept and so
I can send anyone's email and cloak it
by using heuristics so take the
templates most people go to Google they
say best templates they go to HubSpot
they go over to outreach they pull down
the templates and then they start to
Pepper them into the systems uh I warn
people with my own stuff I'm like if you
just rotely copy it it'll work for now
but you you need to understand why it's
a fishing rod what is it that I'm saying
in this email right so this is more of a
philosophic conversation
um
yeah yeah I mean I think you've given us
some some great advice and from what
I've grabbed for that is mix making
yourself stand out really because like
you say there's so many generic cold
emails that go out that just have the
same asks ask for a calendar invite and
just put generic statements like we
helped this company three times X or ten
times X or get this myself it's more
saying look we did this for a similar
company we may be able to help you is it
worth having a conversation or are you
the right person to speak to keeping it
short and snappy and saying we may be
able to do something rather than saying
we can do something yeah so humor is
good if you if you're funny you know
I've got people in my group are sending
you know gifs of SpongeBob what is the
Venn diagram what is it it's either two
or three circles and what it is it's
your brand in the middle and all your
competitors around they did huge level
tests I sent millions of emails you know
what happened if you put a Venn diagram
with your logo in the middle and then
just literally drop your competitors in
a wheel and it looks horrible
uglier the better
right so let me let me tell you if you
do it wrong and send it it converts
higher than if you nail it so you take
three disciplines you know you're like
sequencer data provider gdpr compliant
boom you're in the middle then you Nest
the logos you send it
one of the things I'll tell you is you
need to make your communication ugly
there's 900 handset renderings you might
not know this I worked in Mobile for 13
years if you use paragraphs and spacing
in your emails it will be wonky on the
900 devices never do any of that hey
John comma send a sentence it's called I
call it compacting compacted Spears
these are mainly mobile responsive
design aware templates they're funky
they're tight never use complete
sentences wow don't do that uh there's
no time
notice that you are
raising funding good job similar client
just did plugged Us in 3x reduction in
inventory turns Zoom
I talk like a telegram stuff's all
broken you know it's it's poetic license
ugly they're Compact and they're funky
and they and they you know that that
whole diagram where they show you the
paragraph and then they pull out all the
vowels and your brain can actually
defeat it just perfectly your brain's so
powerful
what happens on the big paragraph emails
is they run F tracking and the way it
does it the fight-or-flight is the
executive looks and these are speed
readers right everybody who can have
opinion and I was read is reading about
60 books a year and that might be blogs
but
readers are leaders like people in
leadership positions are just ingesting
massive amounts of content and they're
all kind of speed readers so when they
open a big template email they hit the
top they and they drive left you've
heard of the F curve well that's because
of eye tracking they run a retina scan
and they see it light up it goes across
the top is it safe boom down to the
bottom back up and it flies up and down
and it snacks it snacks the content your
brain is going is it safe is it safe
delete is it safe it's safe delete and
it's moving in nanoseconds under micro
nanosis what Malcolm Gladwell called the
thin slice so if you want to put a
person through that good luck I don't do
that I have under three seconds like the
heartbeat that's that's on my cold calls
one one thousand two one thousand three
one thousand that is the amount of
attention that you can get from an
executive who can buy if you want to get
in front of Executives who can't buy
that can fully digest that thing go
ahead but those are not the people who
can buy you you get about the heartbeat
of a text message and they're going to f
curve track when you send a hyper short
email do you know what they do hey it
must not be that important it must not
be that expensive it completely diffuses
the bomb a big needy personal email is
like ah is it is it the IRS what do they
really want is it going to cost me
Millions you know they they start and
they they never look at it again because
there's also procrastination they got
all those big emails from their boss and
all those other people that got to
respond to
and I just I just I can't understand
maybe those systems work and I didn't
figure out how to use it I'm not trying
to diss it but uh this is this is the
system that I constructed I I think I
need more tactics about what to say in
the emails I'll tell you what I do
dissect what you've just said yeah we
shouldn't space out our emails are you
saying what has worked best for you is
to put it almost all on one one Short
Line getting straight to the point
there's there's no space it's just like
high you know
Hi Sam comma sentence one sentence two
thanks it's all one Clump what to write
so what I do is I go to their website
when I'm writing emails for people
because typically a website guess what
the cheapest you can do a website for
right now and like make it really good
for Starbucks for like 25 Grand it's
usually 40 grand 50 Grand so when I
write emails for people I look at the
website
they're SEO and I'm like hey this
website's pretty good they've probably
invested 50 G's on the site and so I go
through and I look at their Solutions
and I'll scrape and I'll go through here
and I'll scrape and I'll bring the
website into the spears I'll atomize the
website right so I will take a Gartner
report and I'll look at the main three
panes
I was doing this iot project and I got
these awesome paints with like you know
codeless low code event driven
applications well when I learned from
the garden report it's Eda everyone who
knows it's Eda it's like you're selling
kubernetes it's k8s so you're also
trying to do a jargon test to do
positive jargon so now I've got these
little short Spears which are clips from
the website and oh there's a cool image
boom take the image I take Cloud app get
cloudapp.com and I'm looking at their
demo deck or I'm looking at an actual
live demo and I just take a 100 kilobit
kilobyte file and I'm gonna Nest that
when I send a sequence of emails that
are 12 touches it is holographically
based meaning the 80d of the executive
means they're not going to open the
first touch maybe touch seven they're
ignore ignore ignore ignore ignore boom
they open Touch seven touch 7 has to
represent the 12 touch 2 has to
represent the 12. every single email
holistically except the bumps which are
the replies has to represent the whole
sequence so this is a huge secret so I
would take industry white papers
customer testimonials quotes the website
you know YouTubes and atomize those down
into little Snippets little Spears and
then you make sure there's enough
storytelling and emotion right uh you
know the VPS sales plugged in gong and
suddenly everybody knew what they were
saying on calls and they had an
objective view of how they were being
successful suddenly three members on the
team were in the middle cohort became
top performers why don't you try gong
tell a story give the quote super short
that might be one spear then here's what
you do with it next day thoughts and
then the next day how about a screenshot
of the interface of how it's done
imagine this screenshot boom sixty
thousand words
whole dopamine head of the brain you put
an image in there you know then you
start bumping around the images so I
have these these terms I have Spears I
have bumps I have nudges I have bends I
have this whole lexicon and all they are
is you know these short-term
terminologies to get people to think
about ways to be hyper short
um and that's been fun to construct as
well another key to my system is pixel
tracking you fire it click on everything
because as you're sending these hyper
short emails now if you're in a
sequencer you can have a rule set
through you can see how many were open
right you can see if they're open three
times four times if someone opens an
email two times it's a delete three
times still probably delete four times
they forward it five or six
they're like moving it around the
organization it's hitting the water
cooler at that point if it's running
live in a sequencer keep the sequencer
going and nudge it just like Ping them
like thoughts or hey you know and you
can also be really open you can call on
the phone say I noticed you opened my
email six times
I had 150k deal go down that way I had
somebody I'd been pixel firing on them
for months suddenly I watched them over
my email seven times I called them on
the phone he goes nice data driven
response he had been opening it and he
could see that I could see I would just
laugh that's great and it actually
helped me sell the deal because my use
of Technology within the sales process
convinced him as a method of operating
that our company was cutting edge and
the way that I sold was reflected of the
solution and the whole vibe so it
actually created a good impression
because it's like wow if you're that
good at email you must have a great CSM
team Your solution must be cutting edge
um
so yeah I call that breaking the fourth
wall when you break the fourth wall it's
stuff like hey I'm sending you a cold
email sequence okay this is touch five
in my cold email sequence would you like
to read it would you call on the phone
right and it's you you say something
like hey I just got your name out of
database you know this is the old
Sandler stuff like I hate to cold call
just as much as you hate getting it are
you hating this right now and I do this
when I when I experiment but that's in
the old Shakespearean days the actors in
the play turn and they talk to the
audience and that's called breaking the
fourth wall most sales people are trying
to trick prospects let's do day one day
seven they're not gonna see it oh it's
not how it works people are so smart
they if the minute you start to
manipulate or trick none of that I'm a
B2B salesperson I'm trying to sell you
something and I'm assertively going to
come after you and say until you say no
right I'm going to come at you like a
bill collector let's just all let's talk
about we're doing let's not hide it
right it's a very overt open system
where the prospect knows what's
happening and they can just say nope and
I have never in my life not opted out
dnc'd and fully blacklisted anyone at
any point in any process that says hey I
have a Creed and a code of contact in
the beginning of my work to say one do
not weaponize these systems don't send
ten thousand emails just because you can
and respect opt out
because it's just not worth it right and
so you know it's uh when I first
released all of it I had a very famous
author said Justin your work is
unethical it's unlawful and it's illegal
and I've just kind of cracked up because
I'm actually an expert in gdpr I've
actually sold data uh SDK derived data
so I read like you know reams of legal
papers on all this stuff and I've sent
millions of emails and like you send a
million emails I'm like to 100 customers
over a year at 50 per day per campaign
way less than your team you know so it's
a really funny
it's funny when you count it all but if
people actually counted all their
activities they would be surprised
there's a lot more companies doing
millions of emails than you think
um
well we've covered some great ground in
terms of cold emails and I think you've
given us a really unique approach on how
to attack it and um could you remind us
again you said there's a resource of
yourself where we can find the method
was it ready yeah
so I've just come out with the Justin
Michael method it contains Venn diagrams
it contains all the things within I call
this thing the cheat codes because my
method is a 20 Page doc I'm doing
another book called team attack powered
sales I was involved in combo
prospecting.com with Tony Hughes but to
find me just hit me up uh on any social
media Justin Michael be like I want to
get your guide I'll send you this thing
called the cheat codes it's a seven
minute read it will absolutely change
your life you will start to become
successful with cold email I've trained
200 people on it in the last 60 days and
I have not found one that is not
successful take it prove me wrong and if
you can't get it to work hit me up
because I want to figure out how it
wouldn't work based on all the stuff I
just explained amazing dude amazing so
how are we doing for Time Justin if
you've got much more we can we cover
yeah I got 10 more minutes
less fit 10 minutes in so we've covered
good ground in terms of code email but
if we if we're sending out quotes if
we're sending out proposals do you have
any structure any guideline on the best
way to send that via email Justin
um sending proposals yeah so if we let's
say we've booked the meeting and of
course a lot of B2B if we're talking
from a b to b space
um so some of us will conduct demos so
do everything live over screen share
whatever top notes you will use some of
us will actually be sending our proposal
documents some of us have been sending
out quotes if we're in that game
is there a way to to send it rather what
I mean is a lot of us are in Industries
where we we might send quotes we might
send proposals we might send other
pieces of literature after we've had an
initial consultation Discovery call
without Prospect
um and then find that our quotes are
getting ignored our proposed documents
are just getting sent to delete folder
or we're just getting stacked up against
other agency have you got any any ways
that we can conduct those on our emails
to get a better response rate to
actually help our conversions or
anything on that that could help people
in the space yeah
yeah so um
it's very dangerous to send information
that contains commercials over an email
it's better to take an opening as a new
closing approach and an outbound
processing prospecting approach to the
entire funnel and what I mean by this is
you want to look them in the whites of
their eyes and say it is twenty thousand
dollars it is one million dollars and
break that ice on the first call get the
commercials talked about Challenger
sales talks about it early commercial
conversation hey we're doing a business
deal and there's going to be money
exchange and I'm okay with that and then
you're different than the other thousand
sellers right I use the Roger Kipling um
the thousandth man which is 999 like
you're the one and then because you've
broken the ice now when you follow up
don't just send a proposal
get them on another call hey I'd like to
show you I'd like to walk you through
the business case right I'd like to walk
you through what I'm proposing let's
collaborate on a mutual business case
here and talk the commercials through
get another call get them on a zoom
we're all sitting around we got nothing
to do don't send
ever send commercial don't ever do it
that's the answer share the screen let
them look at it because they need to
react see the reason I'm a huge
proponent of cold calls also is because
in an email someone gets your text and
they have a negative emotion and they
hit delete but on a cold call I can I
can look at you I can hear you have the
problem you voice your concern I handle
the objection if I send you commercials
I really don't know your budget what's
happening with your your balance
statement your relationship with your
CFO once I send a commercial document
suddenly a new person can be injected in
this deal who's a blocker but if I call
you and on the screen I watch you look
like someone you know you just went to a
funeral dirge you know I'm like what's
the problem and you're like well I can't
do this my CFO just said I can't spend
more than eighty two thousand dollars
okay let me go see okay we'll do it for
eighty one thousand dollars you can't
interact off of it and you can't handle
the negative emotions that come up when
people have commercials are tough for
people especially since 19 for now my
advice would be sure you can send it in
email but first
use an email follow-up to trigger
another meeting
that's specifically to talk through or
walk through with a visual guide
um ideally a return on investment a
business case Oracle does this extremely
well well they have generators with all
these cool pie charts and graphs and you
know it's great selling Hardware
software like that because you got this
rack mounted Edge Computing device and
it's working at this speed and you just
plug the faster one in and you're gonna
make more money it's like you're gonna
realize a 10x efficiency a lot of you
out there are selling products and
services that don't have a they don't
have a direct Roi it's conceptual
and still then it would be better to get
on the phone and state how much it's
going to cost and your model to them so
that they can emote and talk back and
say it's too high I'm concerned about
that the value is really not there could
I get a reference because more times
than not when you just send the email
they'll want to those things but they're
more apt to just procrastinate and never
answer you
um here's another and here's a huge
other thing
do not ever like never open CC
okay I've been in a dozen companies
advised 100 more you send your proposal
you're at the end just send me the
proposal you send it and you send it to
five people everybody you met with in
your open CC
that's a horrible idea
you can do it but what you want to have
is you want to have the WhatsApp or the
text message of all the people who sign
and decide so you send them all the
proposal finally you've walked them
through it and then you send the
document and instead of just sending the
open hey oh just checking back in on the
proposal all five people
that creates almost like a
a cement right they can't decide the
boss has to do but the boss needs a
consensus of the group so you know which
one is it so what I do is I sent finally
send the proposal after walking through
it and then I start to send text
messages
to the person running the group what do
you think of the proposal or whatsapps
or Whatsapp each one individually or I
close the chain
I kick the whole thing back to the lead
who's going to sign say what did your
team think
I take the CC off because as a single
thread I can get a response there's
actually some pretty cool studies Jeremy
Donovan's looked at some of this this
stuff too and cruzberger was a proponent
of this when you have an open CC you
stop your deal and that's why in so many
companies the mid funnel and the
downfall is just like they're kicking
the can and kicking the can they're
having these pipeline reviews
and they can't move the deal and they
write better and better emails to the
whole thing like let me just compel them
and it's because they're stuck because
you know no one is probably a bit of
psychology as well because they think if
we apply to everyone I don't know if
they're going to agree with me or I'm
scared I could say this and that kind of
stuff like yeah I've never thought of
that before that's a really awesome
Point yeah so these are these are good
tips if you got some deals stuck in the
pipe right now and you have a multiple
thread kick it back to just the one
person and ask a question hey what did
your team think
you know were there some concerns here
where are we at again it's a short spear
a little open-end question no
pleasantries just boom like if you ran
into a hall you're just like Doug like
what was your what was your thought on
that or hey like is there a reason we're
not moving forward just let me know and
you'll be amazed so one person always a
response to the group never
uh what else can I ask answer for you we
got five minutes sure thing man I think
that's pretty much all we wanted to
cover today we've covered code emails
we've covered um following up proposals
with quotes and to take that to a life
conversation rather than just just
sending and hoping for the best and
aside from that before we wrap things up
Justin are there any tools that you
recommend that we should utilize for any
of the tactics um that we've discussed
today yeah so you need to have pixel
tracking because if you're sending a ton
of email and you can't see who's opening
it you're going to be what I call
dialing into the abyss
nature abhors a vacuum and sales people
that are getting no response it lowers
morale so run serious Insight yesware
groov.co sales Loft Outreach Zant uh
ring DNA Apollo persist IQ lemlist is a
good one in Europe
get something that allow you to track
your emails and allow you to pre-program
your emails and I'm a huge proponent of
manual send things manually until you
see a streak and then automate them and
scale them so you're definitely need an
email tracker there's a very cool
company where I am an advisor called
lavender and what that does is it as
you're writing an email which is a try
lavender.com just like the color
it looks at your sentiment analysis in
the writing the reading level with the
flesh Kincaid score uh are you sounding
pretentious are you sounding studious
are you sounding cheerful and so that's
pretty cool grammarly has a little
Enterprise plug-in now that's doing that
also the lavender is really special in
that way
um getting a sense for how you're
writing as you write it is it's so
simple but so Space Age to think right
we're going to get to the point here
soon whereas you're having the zoom call
the AI assistant is saying it was 76
percent close rate and you ask a
question 36 percent close we're going to
have all this Ai and predictive which is
happening soon but for now
um You Gotta Have the basics you got to
have a sales engagement platform so you
can automate and there's affordable ones
all the way up to really sophisticated
ones
um you've got to have tracking
um what else can I say no formatting on
the emails it's critical
because you need to get delivered you
need to get delivered
um and then I guess the the conversation
goes to Tech Stacks you got to have
working email address and get this you
need to check your domain
so check your dkim your spiff and your
dmarc because these are things if you're
of the tens of millions of small
business owners out there of websites
you probably haven't checked that truth
be told if you start sending email out
of a Gmail and you send it too fast and
you have enough people Mark your spam
your whole domain could be deprecated
the majority of the time when I work
with clients they're literally not
getting inboxed because their domain
those weird things I just said are off
yeah
they spent too fast you actually when
you warm a Gmail you go 25 25 50. people
buy Outreach then wow I can do a
thousand and the Gmail says 500 I'm
gonna send 400 day one boom and then
they kill their deliverability from day
one because they never learned about
warming there's a cool tool at lemless
called lemorm where you kind of send to
folks you know and kind of get you warm
up but all that is is the international
consortia of internet service providers
trying to figure out whether you're a
spamming entity they've got honey pots
and traps and here's the other thing the
word revenue is spam word start to go to
the sites and figure out what the spam
words are I keep a list of 30 or 40 spam
words because a lot of the common stuff
that you put in an email actually
triggers spam arrays
because they're because they're getting
a thousand emails a day that say 200 Roi
so anything that says percent ROI is
like
promotions folder in Gmail like it's
pulled out so you got to get really
Savvy about what not to do before you
figure out what to do I mean I could go
on yeah everything and everything in
line before you even start doing it that
makes perfect sense man Justin you've
covered some great ground really
appreciate you coming on dude I do like
to ask everyone that comes on emailing a
site if you had to pick or recommend
just one digital marketing channel for
businesses to get involved in which one
would it be
and you're asking a digital marketing
channel so I can't say a phone right
um
yeah wow um
you know I'm gonna I'm gonna say
I'm gonna say email because of the
success I've been having with it you
know I'm gonna say if you can do a
radically diverged email strategy I
don't know why but it's still it's still
the peak performer LinkedIn everybody's
doing from site 40 to site 16 in America
reddits at site four so social selling
has really moved up the chart but uh
email is still it's it's still the
heavyweight champion in my opinion
so man when you've been tuning into
Sam's business Grove show we sit down
with Business Leaders experts and
entrepreneurs from around the globe we
found out their story how marketing's
happened along the way and their
exclusive tips and insights to help you
score up at your sales and score off
your business Justin if you could thank
just one person either dead or alive
having a positive influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why
wow that's pretty good I'll go with Jack
Canfield
um he's an American success coach who uh
wrote Chicken Soup for the Soul and I
had to read his book in 10th Grade and
when I met him about 15 years ago when I
was 26
. he said oh I wrote Chicken Soup for
the Soul I was at a dinner with him I
said oh I had to read that in 10th Grade
I didn't realize you made 100 million
dollars but uh he he's been a very huge
influence I've run into him a few times
since then and he has a lot of really
good stuff for positive thinking and as
I got inspired to write my own books I
really thought about his story
um so yeah check out jack hanfield's
work I don't hear about him enough
anymore it's weird some of the biggest
names in the world are becoming a little
uh quieter now in the different
Generations but he's he's a cool guy to
check out and get inspired for your
mindset
thank you sir Justin really appreciate
you coming on dude tell us a bit more
about how we can learn from you how we
can connect with you and tell us a bit
more about how we can get in touch
yeah so I would just um check out combo
prospecting by Tony J Hughes he's my
mentor of eight years I was the case
study it's just combo prospecting.com
um check out my patreon Justin Michael
on patreon there's something called the
salesborgs where you can join you can
just hit me up on LinkedIn I just hit
the 30 000 caps so I can't accept your
friend request but you can follow me
um you can figure out a way to send me a
note to send me a tweet follow me on
Twitter if you can get if you can figure
out how to get a hold of me which should
be really easy I'll send you my guide
and my guide will change your life in
under 10 minutes uh if if what you're
looking to do is you know set unlimited
meetings via email that's what we're all
about and uh I'll give away my entire
life's work for ten dollars it's worth
about 11.
thank you so much for coming on man
really appreciate it you got it thank
you thank you are you tired of
constantly hunting for new customers you
could be missing out on regular inbound
opportunities all because your website
isn't on the first page of Google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on Advertising but your website is
failing to convert all of your
hard-earned visitors into a consistent
flow of new customers
if you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings ideal
clients straight to you
connect with Sam Dunning on LinkedIn or
book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts